README.md, before:

# Kalispell Software Crafters Code of Conduct

Below are several versions of our code of conduct. These range from short, medium, and long versions which can be used for various media. The reason a code of conduct is important is because we currently have a great community of people interested in software development and we want to keep it that way as we grow. We want to have a welcoming community for everyone, of all backgrounds, and having a code of conduct, and enforcing it, helps to ensure that we all have a safe and fun experience!

So, everyone please be mindful and respectful of others as they will be of you. Please take a moment to review the code of conduct and become familiar with it. This applies to all of our events and online communities. When there is a report we will take it seriously and not allow for a "missing stair" situation, as explained on the linked page: https://geekfeminism.wikia.org/wiki/Missing_stair

Thank you.

This anti-harassment policy is based on the example policy from the Geek Feminism wiki, created by the Ada Initiative and other volunteers.

## Short version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to a harassment-free experience for everyone. Our anti-harassment policy can be found at:

https://github.com/kalispell-software-crafters/code-of-conduct

## Medium version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery are not appropriate for any event venue, including presentations or online communications. This code of conduct applies to all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, including events that we organize and our Slack and Discord communities, both online and off. Participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the group (without a refund if applicable) at the discretion of the event organizer(s) or leadership team member(s). Some Kalispell Software Crafters spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and abiding by these rules. Our anti-harassment policy can be found at:

https://github.com/kalispell-software-crafters/code-of-conduct

## Long version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery are not appropriate for any event venue, including presentations or online communications. This code of conduct applies to all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, including events that we organize and our Slack and Discord communities, both online and off. Participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the group (without a refund if applicable) at the discretion of the event organizer(s) or leadership team member(s). Some Kalispell Software Crafters spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and abiding by these rules.

Harassment includes, but is not limited to:

* Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, age, race, or religion.
* Comments that reinforce social structures of domination (related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, or religion).
* Unwelcome comments regarding a person's lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment.
* Deliberate misgendering or use of 'dead' or rejected names.
* Gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behavior in spaces where they're not appropriate (such as public spaces).
* Inappropriate physical contact and simulated physical contact (e.g. textual descriptions like "*hug*" or "*backrub*") without consent or after a request to stop.
* Threats of violence.
* Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm.
* Deliberate intimidation.
* Stalking or following.
* Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes.
* Sustained disruption of presentatinons, discussions or other events.
* Unwelcome sexual attention.
* Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others.
* Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease.
* Deliberate "outing" of any aspect of a person's identity without their consent except as necessary to protect vulnerable people from intentional abuse.
* Publication of non-harassing private communication.
* Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior

Kalispell Software Crafters prioritizes marginalized people's safety over privileged people's comfort. The leadership team reserves the right not to act on complaints regarding:

* 'Reverse' -isms, including 'reverse racism,' 'reverse sexism,' and 'cisphobia'
* Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as "leave me alone," "go away," or "I'm not discussing this with you."
* Communicating in a 'tone' you don't find congenial.
* Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or assumptions.

The above sections focus on harassment. The following section describes other actions that are not allowed within our communities or at our events.

* Solicitation
* Advertisements
* Excessive strong language (curse words/swearing)

### Enforcement

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, event organizers retain the right to take any actions to keep the event a welcoming environment for all participants. This includes warning the offender or expulsion from the conference, event or online community (with no refund if applicable).

Event organizers may take action to redress anything designed to, or with the clear impact of, disrupting the event or making the environment hostile for any participants.

We expect participants to follow these rules at all event venues and event-related social activities (both off and online). We think people should follow these rules outside event activities too!

### Reporting

If someone makes you or anyone else feel unsafe or unwelcome, please report it as soon as possible. Harassment and other code of conduct violations reduce the value of our event for everyone. We want you to be happy at our event. People like you make our event a better place.

You can make a report either personally or anonymously.

#### Anonymous Report

You can make an anonymous report here https://kalispellsoftwarecrafters.wufoo.com/forms/kalispell-software-crafters-contact-form/.

We can't follow up an anonymous report with you directly, but we will fully investigate it and take whatever action is necessary to prevent a recurrence.

#### Personal Report

If you are being harassed by a member of Kalispell Software Crafters, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact the leadership team (details are below). If the person who is harassing you is on the team, they will recuse themselves from handling your incident. We will respond as promptly as we can.

This code of conduct applies to Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, but if you are being harassed by a member of Kalispell Software Crafters outside our spaces, we still want to know about it. We will take all good-faith reports of harassment by Kalispell Software Crafters members and leadership team members seriously. This includes harassment outside our spaces and harassment that took place at any point in time. The leadership team reserves the right to exclude people from Kalispell Software Crafters based on their past behavior, including behavior outside Kalispell Software Crafters spaces and behavior towards people who are not in the Kalispell Software Crafters community.

In order to protect volunteers from abuse and burnout, we reserve the right to reject any report we believe to have been made in bad faith. Reports intended to silence legitimate criticism may be deleted without response.

We will respect confidentiality requests for the purpose of protecting victims of abuse. At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we've received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them, if we believe that doing so will increase the safety of Kalispell Software Crafters members or the general public. We will not name harassment victims without their affirmative consent.

You can make a personal report by:

* Emailing us at kalispell.software.crafters AT gmail DOT com.
* Contacting a leadership team member, identified on our meetup page at https://www.meetup.com/Kalispell-Software-Crafters/members/?op=leaders.

When taking a personal report in person, our staff will ensure you are safe and cannot be overheard. They may involve other event staff to ensure your report is managed properly. Once safe, we'll ask you to tell us about what happened. This can be upsetting, but we'll handle it as respectfully as possible, and you can bring someone to support you. You won't be asked to confront anyone, and we won't tell anyone who you are.

Our team will be happy to help you contact venue security, local law enforcement, local support services, provide escorts, or otherwise assist you to feel safe for the duration of the event. We value your attendance, contributions, and involvement.

### Consequences

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing behavior, the event organizer(s) and leadership team member(s) may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including expulsion from all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces and identification of the participant as a harasser to other Kalispell Software Crafters members or the general public.

### Resources

* Local law enforcement: Kalispell City Police Department - (406) 758-7780
* Local sexual assault hot line: The Abbie Shelter and Violence Free Crisis Line - (406) 752-7273
* Urgent care: Family Health Care - (406) 752-8120
* Local taxi company: Glacier Taxi - (406) 250-3603
* Online Abuse Helpline: Crash Override - http://www.crashoverridenetwork.com/index.html

Commit message:

Add wording for unacceptable behavior.

README.md, after:

# Kalispell Software Crafters Code of Conduct

Below are several versions of our code of conduct. These range from short, medium, and long versions which can be used for various media. The reason a code of conduct is important is because we currently have a great community of people interested in software development and we want to keep it that way as we grow. We want to have a welcoming community for everyone, of all backgrounds, and having a code of conduct, and enforcing it, helps to ensure that we all have a safe and fun experience!

So, everyone please be mindful and respectful of others as they will be of you. Please take a moment to review the code of conduct and become familiar with it. This applies to all of our events and online communities. When there is a report we will take it seriously and not allow for a "missing stair" situation, as explained on the linked page: https://geekfeminism.wikia.org/wiki/Missing_stair

Thank you.

This anti-harassment policy is based on the example policy from the Geek Feminism wiki, created by the Ada Initiative and other volunteers.

## Short version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to a harassment-free experience for everyone. Our anti-harassment policy can be found at:

https://github.com/kalispell-software-crafters/code-of-conduct

## Medium version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery are not appropriate for any event venue, including presentations or online communications. This code of conduct applies to all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, including events that we organize and our Slack and Discord communities, both online and off. Participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the group (without a refund if applicable) at the discretion of the event organizer(s) or leadership team member(s). Some Kalispell Software Crafters spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and abiding by these rules. Our anti-harassment policy can be found at:

https://github.com/kalispell-software-crafters/code-of-conduct

## Long version

Kalispell Software Crafters is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery are not appropriate for any event venue, including presentations or online communications. This code of conduct applies to all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, including events that we organize and our Slack and Discord communities, both online and off. Participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the group (without a refund if applicable) at the discretion of the event organizer(s) or leadership team member(s). Some Kalispell Software Crafters spaces may have additional rules in place, which will be made clearly available to participants. Participants are responsible for knowing and abiding by these rules.

Harassment includes, but is not limited to:

* Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, age, race, or religion.
* Comments that reinforce social structures of domination (related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, or religion).
* Unwelcome comments regarding a person's lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment.
* Deliberate misgendering or use of 'dead' or rejected names.
* Gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behavior in spaces where they're not appropriate (such as public spaces).
* Inappropriate physical contact and simulated physical contact (e.g. textual descriptions like "*hug*" or "*backrub*") without consent or after a request to stop.
* Threats of violence.
* Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm.
* Deliberate intimidation.
* Stalking or following.
* Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes.
* Sustained disruption of presentatinons, discussions or other events.
* Unwelcome sexual attention.
* Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others.
* Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease.
* Deliberate "outing" of any aspect of a person's identity without their consent except as necessary to protect vulnerable people from intentional abuse.
* Publication of non-harassing private communication.
* Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior

Kalispell Software Crafters prioritizes marginalized people's safety over privileged people's comfort. The leadership team reserves the right not to act on complaints regarding:

* 'Reverse' -isms, including 'reverse racism,' 'reverse sexism,' and 'cisphobia'
* Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as "leave me alone," "go away," or "I'm not discussing this with you."
* Communicating in a 'tone' you don't find congenial.
* Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or assumptions.

The above sections focus on harassment. The following section describes other actions that are not allowed within our communities or at our events.

* Solicitation
* Advertisements
* Excessive strong language (curse words/swearing)

### Enforcement

Participants asked to stop any harassing or unacceptable behavior are expected to comply immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing or unacceptable behavior, event organizers retain the right to take any actions to keep the event a welcoming environment for all participants. This includes warning the offender or expulsion from the conference, event or online community (with no refund if applicable).

Event organizers may take action to redress anything designed to, or with the clear impact of, disrupting the event or making the environment hostile for any participants.

We expect participants to follow these rules at all event venues and event-related social activities (both off and online). We think people should follow these rules outside event activities too!

### Reporting

If someone makes you or anyone else feel unsafe or unwelcome, please report it as soon as possible. Harassment and other code of conduct violations reduce the value of our event for everyone. We want you to be happy at our event. People like you make our event a better place.

You can make a report either personally or anonymously.

#### Anonymous Report

You can make an anonymous report here https://kalispellsoftwarecrafters.wufoo.com/forms/kalispell-software-crafters-contact-form/.

We can't follow up an anonymous report with you directly, but we will fully investigate it and take whatever action is necessary to prevent a recurrence.

#### Personal Report

If you are being harassed by a member of Kalispell Software Crafters, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact the leadership team (details are below). If the person who is harassing you is on the team, they will recuse themselves from handling your incident. We will respond as promptly as we can.

This code of conduct applies to Kalispell Software Crafters spaces, but if you are being harassed by a member of Kalispell Software Crafters outside our spaces, we still want to know about it. We will take all good-faith reports of harassment by Kalispell Software Crafters members and leadership team members seriously. This includes harassment outside our spaces and harassment that took place at any point in time. The leadership team reserves the right to exclude people from Kalispell Software Crafters based on their past behavior, including behavior outside Kalispell Software Crafters spaces and behavior towards people who are not in the Kalispell Software Crafters community.

In order to protect volunteers from abuse and burnout, we reserve the right to reject any report we believe to have been made in bad faith. Reports intended to silence legitimate criticism may be deleted without response.

We will respect confidentiality requests for the purpose of protecting victims of abuse. At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we've received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them, if we believe that doing so will increase the safety of Kalispell Software Crafters members or the general public. We will not name harassment victims without their affirmative consent.

You can make a personal report by:

* Emailing us at kalispell.software.crafters AT gmail DOT com.
* Contacting a leadership team member, identified on our meetup page at https://www.meetup.com/Kalispell-Software-Crafters/members/?op=leaders.

When taking a personal report in person, our staff will ensure you are safe and cannot be overheard. They may involve other event staff to ensure your report is managed properly. Once safe, we'll ask you to tell us about what happened. This can be upsetting, but we'll handle it as respectfully as possible, and you can bring someone to support you. You won't be asked to confront anyone, and we won't tell anyone who you are.

Our team will be happy to help you contact venue security, local law enforcement, local support services, provide escorts, or otherwise assist you to feel safe for the duration of the event. We value your attendance, contributions, and involvement.

### Consequences

Participants asked to stop any harassing or unacceptable behavior are expected to comply immediately.

If a participant engages in harassing or unacceptable behavior, the event organizer(s) and leadership team member(s) may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including expulsion from all Kalispell Software Crafters spaces and identification of the participant as a harasser or agitator to other Kalispell Software Crafters members or the general public.

### Resources

* Local law enforcement: Kalispell City Police Department - (406) 758-7780
* Local sexual assault hot line: The Abbie Shelter and Violence Free Crisis Line - (406) 752-7273
* Urgent care: Family Health Care - (406) 752-8120
* Local taxi company: Glacier Taxi - (406) 250-3603
* Online Abuse Helpline: Crash Override - http://www.crashoverridenetwork.com/index.html
